## Architecture

Every word gets manually assigned an "intent" vector. This vector is added to a strings intent vector as the string is parsed. After the strings intent vector is created, it is compared to a list of actions and their corresponding activation vector. Based on a few comparison parameters, certain actions are selected and return a string which is concatenated into a response string.

The idea is to have a CSV for the word dictionary to make modifying and adding new intent columns easier by using spreadsheet software. The action and their "activation phrase" will be held in a separate file (maybe a custom format). The activation phrase will hold a string that gives the general gist of what an a string needs to look like in order for an action to be triggered. On startup, the activation phrase will be parseed into an activation vector. The action entry must also have a corresponding function it calls that returns a string to be concatenated into the response. I am still adjusting decision making using two primary heuristics: element comparison and absolute difference. 

Element comparison compares each element of the string intent vector and the activation vector and uses some general rule (haven't quite figured out the best heuristic to use). The current best method is to see if the string intent vector element is less than the activation vector element. The idea is that if a critical part of the activation vector is missing, the action shouldn't fire. 

The absolute difference component is used to compensate for shortcomings in element comparison. Element comparison is very good for comparing individual vector components and combing for details, but can miss the bigger picture. By keeping an absolute difference between the intent and activation vector, a single parameter can be used to determine how "big picture" the decision making is looking. Right now the tolerance is set very high to allow for more human-like decision making, but could be clamped down (perhaps programatically) to create more precise actions/decisions.
